Draft docs page for processing levels and updated processing_level_url (#1008)
OSOceanAcoustics/echopype: docs/source/processing-levels.md

# Proposed Echosounder Data Proccesing Levels (DRAFT)

The decades-long experience from the satellite remote sensing community has shown that a set of robust and well-articulated definitions of "data processing levels" [1]–[5] can lead directly to broad and highly productive use of the data. Processing level designations also provide important context for data interpretation [6]. However, no such community agreement exists for active acoustic data, and the ambiguity associated with the interoperability and inter-comparability of processed sonar data products has hindered efficient collaboration and integrative use of the rapidly accumulated data archive across research institutions and agencies.

> The `echopype` team is developing a clearly defined progression of data processing levels for active ocean sonar data, leveraging the accumulated experience from remote sensing and large-scale, long-term ocean and ecological observatories [7]–[10]. Data processing functions in `echopype` are clearly associated with specific Processing Level inputs and outputs, and when appropriate, will generate a `processing_level` dataset global attribute with entries such as "Level 1A", "Level 2B", "Level 4", etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `echopype` team is developing a clearly defined progression of data processing levels for active ocean sonar data. The development leverages the collective experience from remote sensing and large-scale, long-term ocean and ecological observatories [7]–[10]. Data processing functions in `echopype` are clearly associated with specific Processing Level inputs and outputs, and when appropriate, will generate a `processing_level` dataset global attribute with entries such as "Level 1A", "Level 2B", "Level 4", etc.
```

## Processing Levels and Sub-levels

### Level 0 (L0)

**Description:**  Raw data in vendor sensor format.

- raw binary files. Associated metadata may be found in external files.

### Level 1 (L1)

> **Description:** Raw data packaged with ancillary information and converted and standardized to an open convention and standard data formats. May be distributed as sets of individual converted files as originally segmented into arbitrary time ranges during sensor file creation or compiled into larger granules corresponding to logical deployment intervals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Description:** Raw data packaged with ancillary information and converted and standardized to an open convention and standard data formats. May be distributed in the following two forms: 
  - as sets of individual converted files as originally segmented into arbitrary time ranges during sensor file creation, or
  - compiled into larger granules corresponding to logical deployment intervals.
```

> - **L1A**: Raw L0 data converted to a standardized, open format with geographic coordinates (latitude & longitude) processed and included. Includes other ancillary information extracted from sensor-generated L0 data or other external sources. May include environmental information such as temperature, salinity and pressure. Use of the SONAR-netcDF4 v1 convention is strongly recommended.

Reviewer: In "Raw L0 data converted to a standardized, open format with geographic coordinates (latitude & longitude) processed and included." it is not clear what "processed" means.

Author: I've removed "processed"

- **L1B**: L1A data with quality-control steps applied, such as time-coordinate corrections that enforce strictly increasing, non-duplicate timestamps.

### Level 2 (L2)

**Description:** Calibrated acoustic quantities at raw data resolution, with spatial coordinates included (latitude, longitude and depth)

- **L2A**: Volume backscattering strength (`Sv`) with interpolated latitude, longitude and depth coordinates. May incorporate addition information, such as  split beam angle
- **L2B**: `Sv` L2A data with noise removal or other data filtering applied, including seafloor bottom removal.

### Level 3 (L3)

**Description:** Calibrated acoustic quantities regridded or aggregated to a common grid across channels. May include noise removal or other filtering.

- `Sv` resampled to a common, high-resolution grid across channels
- Mean Volume Backscattering Strength (`MVBS`)

> - `Sv` frequency difference across two channels resampled to a common grid

Reviewer: I am not sure why the frequency difference between Sv from two channels is a data product. It is more of a processing step to classify?  Do you mean the masked Sv afterwards?

Author: I agree. I've made a suggestion to emphasize the mask application, and retaining frequency differencing only as a mask example. How does that look?

Reviewer: I think that would work for this iteration. Let's discuss where masks should belong as data products -- i feel it may belong to L4, but we can reference other examples to determine.

- **L3A**: The above variables computed on L2A data
- **L3B**: The above variables computed on L2B (filtered) data

### Level 4 (L4)

**Description:** Acoustically derived biological features, involving further processing of L3 data that may include data reduction or incorporation of external sources of data.

> - Nautical Area Backscattering Coefficients (`NASC`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Nautical Area Backscattering Coefficients (`NASC`), potentially partitioned into inferred sources of scattering
```

- Summary statistics of echogram features (center_of_mass, dispersion, etc)
- Taxon or species-level data labels (classification). May originate from a variety of methods, including frequency difference thresholds.

> - Biomass estimation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Estimated biomass, combined or partitioned into different taxonomic sources.
```

The `echopype` team is developing a clearly defined progression of data processing levels for active ocean sonar data. The development leverages the collective experience from remote sensing and large-scale, long-term ocean and ecological observatories [7]–[10]. Data processing functions in `echopype` are clearly associated with specific Processing Level inputs and outputs, and when appropriate, will generate a `processing_level` dataset global attribute with entries such as "Level 1A", "Level 2B", "Level 4", etc.

## Processing Levels and Sub-levels

### Level 0 (L0)

**Description:**  Raw data in vendor sensor format.

- raw binary files. Associated metadata may be found in external files.

### Level 1 (L1)

**Description:** Raw data packaged with ancillary information and converted and standardized to an open convention and standard data formats. May be distributed in the following two forms:
  - as sets of individual converted files as originally segmented into arbitrary time ranges during sensor file creation, or
  - compiled into larger granules corresponding to logical deployment intervals.

> - **L1A**: Raw L0 data converted to a standardized, open format with geographic coordinates (latitude & longitude) processed and included. Includes other ancillary information extracted from sensor-generated L0 data or other external sources. May include environmental information such as temperature, salinity and pressure. Use of the SONAR-netcDF4 v1 convention is strongly recommended.

Author: I'm removing "processed".
```suggestion
- **L1A**: Raw L0 data converted to a standardized, open format with geographic coordinates (latitude & longitude) included. Includes other ancillary information extracted from sensor-generated L0 data or other external sources. May include environmental information such as temperature, salinity and pressure. Use of the SONAR-netcDF4 v1 convention is strongly recommended.
```

- **L1B**: L1A data with quality-control steps applied, such as time-coordinate corrections that enforce strictly increasing, non-duplicate timestamps.

### Level 2 (L2)

**Description:** Calibrated acoustic quantities at raw data resolution, with spatial coordinates included (latitude, longitude and depth)

- **L2A**: Volume backscattering strength (`Sv`) with interpolated latitude, longitude and depth coordinates. May incorporate addition information, such as  split beam angle
- **L2B**: `Sv` L2A data with noise removal or other data filtering applied, including seafloor bottom removal.

### Level 3 (L3)

**Description:** Calibrated acoustic quantities regridded or aggregated to a common grid across channels. May include noise removal or other filtering.

- `Sv` resampled to a common, high-resolution grid across channels
- Mean Volume Backscattering Strength (`MVBS`)

> - `Sv` frequency difference across two channels resampled to a common grid

Author: ```suggestion
- Masks applied to `Sv` based on different potential criteria, sources or calculations, such as frequency difference across two channels.
```

> - Masks applied to `Sv` based on different potential criteria, sources or calculations, such as frequency difference across two channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Masks applied to `Sv` based on different scattering source classification criteria and methods, such as frequency difference across two channels.
```
